Revamp getting started docs (#404)
thesofproject/sof-docs: getting_started/setup_linux/setup_ktest_environment.rst

**********************************

The target device can be any of the SOF-supported platforms,

> e.g. MinnowBoard, Up^2, Asus T100, Chromebooks.

Reviewer: Can you please fix line 15 in the introduction? It says "though only one branch can be checked out at a time" whereas the FIRST line of `git help worktree` says "...  allowing you to check out more than one branch at a time"

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo cp /boot/vmlinuz-`uname -r` /boot/vmlinuz-test

   # On Ubuntu:
   sudo cp /boot/initrd.img-`uname -r` /boot/initrd.img-test
   
   # On Fedora:
   sudo cp /boot/initramfs-`uname -r`.img /boot/initramfs-test.img
   sudo grubby --add-kernel /boot/vmlinuz-test --title=test

You will never override the default

> distro kernel, so you will always have the ability to boot a

Reviewer: Move this to the next section?

working kernel if your changes fail to boot.

4. Edit grub settings
---------------------

This only needs to be run on Ubuntu and Debian, Fedora has the proper settings by default.

.. code-block:: bash

   # Use your text editor of choice.
   sudo emacs /etc/default/grub
   # Change GRUB_DEFAULT=[n] to GRUB_DEFAULT=saved
   # Then add GRUB_DISABLE_SUBMENU=y to the end and save,
   # submenus confuse ktest.
   sudo update-grub

> 5. Set the default kernel

Reviewer: This section should come after "getting familiar with grub-reboot". The previous one probably too.

Author: I think it makes sense to leave as-is. The default kernel and grub config only need to be run once, whereas the grub-reboot stuff is somewhat continual. The current order is a bit more chronological in that way.

Author: Fat-fingering any of these commands could cause an unbootable system, regardless of familiarity with grub-reboot. That's not something we can avoid.

The commands it tells you to run before the "get familiar" section don't use grub-reboot at all, they just set configuration required to use grub-reboot. The cheatsheet doesn't work until they are run. For example, it shows how to use `grub-reboot` to boot to the test kernel. If that gets run before the steps in the previous two sections, they're computer could default to the new kernel or not boot the new kernel at all, leading the user to think they did something wrong. I'll let you or @plbossart have the final say on this, but I definitely think the order should be left as-is.

      => 7  menuentry ...

   # Attempt to boot menuentry 4 only once

>    grub-reboot 4

Author: It wasn't clear to me that the `=>` indicated output until I ran the command (maybe it's a convention I'm unaware of). I could see someone pasting that whole thing into their terminal (although that probably wouldn't cause much of an issue). Also, it doesn't seem necessary to run the list command, as it doesn't output any additional information (ie the name of the entry). It's pretty clear that `grub-reboot` will just set the next boot entry.

   reboot

   # Switch to menuentry number 4 as the new "safe" kernel
   grub-set-default 4

Fedora and derived distributions have a more elaborate system to manage
"installed" kernels. Instead of extracting ``menuentry`` lines from
``/boot/grub/grub.cfg`` with the ``awk`` command above, to list all
installed kernels use ``grubby --info=ALL``. 
Check ``grubby``'s documentation for more details.
To boot a different kernel just once, use ``grub2-reboot [n]``, where ``[n]`` is the index of the menu entry you'd like to boot.

6. Install openssh-server
-------------------------

.. code-block:: bash

   # On Ubuntu, you need to install it
   sudo apt-get install openssh-server

   #On Fedora, you just need to enable it
   sudo systemctl enable sshd

   # On either system, you'll need to update the config
   # Use your editor of choice.
   sudo emacs /etc/ssh/sshd_config

> Replace ``#PermitRootLogin prohibit-password`` with ``PermitRootLogin yes``

Author: Is adding "temporarily" necessary if a future step has you revert this change?

(make sure to remove the ``#``) and save.

7. Reboot target
----------------

Make sure it boots automatically to your safe kernel. It's also recommended to test using grub-reboot to boot the test kernel, then rebooting again to make sure it goes back to the safe kernel.

Configure SSH without password
******************************

1. Check SSH connection
-----------------------

> Your dev and target devices will need to be on the same local network. Run ``ip addr`` on the target to get its IP address. All other commands should be run on your dev machine, unless specified otherwise.

Author: See https://github.com/thesofproject/sof-docs/pull/404#discussion_r806213561

.. code-block:: bash

   # Make sure that you can connect and login to the target

>    ssh root@<target ip address>

Reviewer 2: Although I use them frequently, I agree adding "or hostname" is helpful.

2. Generate an SSH key for the target
-------------------------------------

.. code-block:: bash

>    ssh-keygen -f ~/.ssh/sshktest

Reviewer 3: a number of programs want you to use a dedicated key @marc-hb, e.g. gerrit and other things.

we could also add a note that if you want to you can use an existing key.

>    ssh-keygen -f ~/.ssh/sshktest

Reviewer: > a number of programs want you to use a dedicated key @marc-hb, e.g. gerrit and other things.

By policy/recommendation maybe. Technically no server can enforce a dedicated key. If they could there would be some security issue.

I've used a non-dedicated key with several Gerrit instances and that never caused any issue. I don't remember any recommendation to use a dedicated key.

https://gerrit-review.googlesource.com/Documentation/user-upload.html#ssh leans towards re-use.
https://docs.openstack.org/contributors/common/setup-gerrit.html leaves that question open.

> we could also add a note that if you want to you can use an existing key.

Yes please.

   # This will prompt you for the target's root password.
   ssh-copy-id -i ~/.ssh/sshktest root@<target>

3. Test the key
---------------

.. code-block:: bash

   ssh root@<target>

.. note::

>    If you are still prompted for a password, it's likely your distro doesn't automatically remember the proper key to use.

Author: For 95-99% of people, ssh-agent will automatically be enabled and they can ignore this note. It's only in some rare cases (like when developing out of a container) that ssh-agent will be missing or not configured. I could add instructions to set it up, but I believe that has to be done by editing `.bashrc/.zshrc`. That can be non-trivial as many people wouldn't know which shell they use (maybe its' safe to assume bash?). Besides, the `~/.ssh/config` works good enough. If someone is doing lots of ssh work they'll already have ssh-agent configured or know they need to do that. I'm just trying to go with the simplest solution for unfamiliar developers.

   In this case, put the following in ``~/.ssh/config`` (make sure to update ``<target ip>``) and then use ``ktest-target`` instead of the actual target's IP for ssh connections (ie ``ssh root@ktest-target``).

   .. code-block:: text

      Host ktest-target
        HostName <target ip>
        IdentityFile ~/.ssh/sshktest

4. Disable root access
----------------------

> Run this on the target device to disable root password if you

Author: Will do

Replace ``PermitRootLogin yes`` by  ``PermitRootLogin without-password``, save, and exit.

Build and install the kernel with ktest
***************************************

Follow the `setup your development environment <prepare_build_environment.html>`_ instructions before proceeding.

> 1. Perpare ktest environment

Reviewer 3: typo; prepare

Author: Fixed

  BUILD_NOCLEAN = 1

> For targets running Fedora and derived distributions, make the following changes:

Reviewer: Good catch, thank you.

.. code-block:: perl

>   GRUB_MENU    = ${LOCALVERSION}

Reviewer: I don't see how this can work.

Author: A previous section has you set the title of the grub entry to `test`, which matches LOCALVERSION.

Reviewer: My bad! Please keep the previous value command as a comment, it's a useful reference to have in the config file when something goes wrong. ktest variable names tend to be cryptic and `GRUB_MENU` is one of the worst.

  GRUB_REBOOT  = grub2-reboot
  REBOOT_TYPE  = grub2bls

>   POST_INSTALL = ssh  -o 'ProxyCommand none' $SSH_USER@$MACHINE sudo dracut --hostonly --force /boot/initramfs-${LOCALVERSION}.img $KERNEL_VERSION

Reviewer: Can you please take the opportunity to remove all the `-o 'ProxyCommand none'` occurrences? They really don't belong to this guide. People who need this must put it once for all in .ssh/config, certainly not in their ktest config file.

>   POST_INSTALL = ssh  -o 'ProxyCommand none' $SSH_USER@$MACHINE sudo dracut --hostonly --force /boot/initramfs-${LOCALVERSION}.img $KERNEL_VERSION

Author: From my experience, that command will load from the wrong directory and output to the wrong file. `kver` is supposed to be `$KERNEL_VERSION` as that's what directory in `/lib/modules` it looks for. The output needs to be changed to `/boot/initramfs-${LOCALVERSION}.img` as the default uses the full kernel version. The kernel itself goes at `vmlinuz-test` (`$LOCALVERSION` = test), so the initramfs has to have a matching name. I'm not sure how you got yours to work, but I would assume other parts of your config are different.

4. Build and test
-----------------

.. code-block:: bash

   # This can take a while, so don't kill it if it appears to freeze
   ./ktest.pl sof-dev.conf

If this does not work, make sure you have all the following files in the
local directory:

* ktest.pl
* sof-dev-cat
* linux
* sof-dev-build
* sof-dev.conf
* sof-dev-defconfig

Ktest will compile, install the new kernel, and reboot. Prompt
detection only works with a UART, not over SSH, so you will get an error if the console is not enabled. In this case, you'll have to

> ``Control-C`` manually. Even though the script reports an error, the new kernel should still be installed and your target device should boot it. Check which kernel is booted by running ``uname -r``.

Reviewer: People who have no prompt detection should simply use `TEST_TYPE = install` instead of hitting Ctrl-C after an undefined amount of time.

Author: Should I just set that as the default since most people won't have that?

Reviewer: Makes sense to me.

  BUILD_NOCLEAN = 1

For targets running Fedora and derived distributions, make the following changes:

.. code-block:: perl

  # GRUB_MENU should be the title of the custom kernel entry you added,
  # which will match LOCALVERSION ("test") if you followed the previous steps
  # You can view all your kernel entries with `grubby --info=ALL`
  GRUB_MENU    = ${LOCALVERSION}
  GRUB_REBOOT  = grub2-reboot
  REBOOT_TYPE  = grub2bls
  POST_INSTALL = ssh $SSH_USER@$MACHINE sudo dracut --hostonly --force /boot/initramfs-${LOCALVERSION}.img $KERNEL_VERSION

4. Build and test
-----------------

.. code-block:: bash

   # This can take a while, so don't kill it if it appears to freeze
   ./ktest.pl sof-dev.conf

If this does not work, make sure you have all the following files in the
local directory:

* ktest.pl
* sof-dev-cat
* linux
* sof-dev-build
* sof-dev.conf
* sof-dev-defconfig

Ktest will compile and install the new kernel, then reboot the target device. Check which kernel is booted by running ``uname -r`` on the target.

.. note::

>    KTest expects a UART connection to verify that the boot was successful. If you do not have a UART connection you will get some errors at the end of the ``ktest.pl`` script's execution, but you can ignore them as long as the custom kernel was installed and booted on the target device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   KTest expects a UART connection to verify that the boot was successful. If you do not have a UART connection you will get some errors at the end of the ``ktest.pl`` script's execution. You can either ignore them or change the TEST_TYPE to `install`
```

Author: I found out that changing the `TEST_TYPE` to `install` results in it skipping the `grub-reboot` command, so the default kernel is booted instead of the freshly installed one. It's possible there's a workaround but Pierre suggested I leave it how it is.
